---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-08T17:18:43.472Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-08T17:18:13.907Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-08-20519ad3-44cb-49e0-b752-e30b6535de0c.md
published: true
url: 20519ad3-44cb-49e0-b752-e30b6535de0c/index.html
_type: Article

---
With any high traffic or complex site, caching is always going to be a concern. The set-up that I generally use is based around using the pattern deletion functionality provided by Redis. This allows me to cache everything while still easily busting the cache in a fairly granular way.

## Installing

This setup requires Redis, of course, and the [django-redis][0] plugin. Installing and setup is pretty straight-forward.

To install Redis:

`sudo apt-get install redis-server`

You will also want to read the[Redis config docs][1]before moving to Production with this. The thing that can really kill you is if you don't set it to purge correctly with a memory limit. If that is not set correctly then it will start going to disk, which obviously is bad.

Once you are setup, go ahead and install django-redis:

`pip install django-redis`

In your Django settings, add the following:

You may also want to take a look at using the HerdClient as opposed to the DefaultClient to counter the[Thundering herd problem][2]but this doesn't impact implementation.

## The Power of Redis

So why am I using Redis over Memcached? Well, for one I don't really need to worry about my key length but the big help here is the fact that Redis allows you to clear cache based on a wildcard pattern. Using django-redis, it may look something like this:

This will delete all keys that start with 'blogpost-', so 'blogpost-today', 'blogpost-tomorrow', but not 'todays-blogpost-tomorrow'. Although, to clear that one you could always just do this:

`cache.delete_pattern('*-blogpost-*')`

## Implementation

So what I am interesting in doing is caching the response of my views and being able to clear those only when I have updated data. If no data is updated then I am perfectly content for that response to never leave the cache.

To do this, I am using Django's class-based views with a Mixin. What I will be doing is overriding the dispatch method, checking the cache for a response, and caching the response if I need to. Here is the most basic start:

This is a very basic start. Note the call to`response.render()`. If you don't do this, you will get an error. Anyway, I am checking the cache for a response object, if I don't have it in cache then I run the typical chain of events, which in my case grabs a list of posts and renders the template. I then cache this for use later. The`timeout = 0`in the cache set call indicates that this will be cached forever.

Of course, the cache key here is not variable, so we need to fix this. In my case, the way that I decide if I need to bust the cache is if an instance of particular classes change. In addition, I want to be able to specify these per-view but I also have certain models that are always going to indicate a cache clearing if they change. So here is what I put together:

OK, so now I have a list of models that I can specify on the view that will be used to build out the cache key. I also have a list of models that I can use by default for all. And finally, I have given myself the option to specify a key prefix per view, in the probably situation wherein more than one view has the same models used to build the cache key.

## Clearing the Cache

Now we get to benefit from the way that we built our cache keys. To do this we're going to use a basic signal:

With the above, whenever an object is saved it will clear any cache keys containing the specified pattern.

[0]: https://django-redis.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
[1]: http://redis.io/topics/config
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem